
WikiToLearn Home
==================

! [](logo/wikitolearn-logo-wtlh.svg.png "WTL logo")

Introduction
------------

The purpose of this repository, which will be referred to as WikiToLearnHome
(shortened as WTLH), is setting up an instance of [WikiToLearn][WTL] (shortened as
WTL), that can either be a development one (run locally on a laptop, with test
content) or a staging-production one.
Specific characteristics of the different instances of WikiToLearn will be
explained in the following sections

All the operations can be performed "manually" (without the help of these
scripts), but the whole process is quite tedious and it is extremely easy to
make some errors, thus we highly recommend to use WTLH to setup your
environment.

Online documentation
--------------------

This markdown documentaion files are exported to mediawiki files, that
can be easily imported on [meta][meta]. The purpose is reducing documentation dispersion and have it all under control in one place,
WTLH repo. The online documentation should only be an updated copy if this.

It may be possible to find a better way to keep the online doc updated,
but this should be enough for the moment.

Documentation overview
----------------------

WTLH Documentation is currently inside `doc` folder and composed by:

`general.mdown`: general infomration about WTLH and WTLH documentation

`local-wtl-instance.mdown` briefly describes the basics operations that can
be performed with WTLH to manage WTL.

`detailed-script.mdown` contains a detailed script overview, for those
who want to a finer control on WTL.


Happy Wiki!

[meta]: https://meta.wikitolearn.org
[WTL]: https://www.wikitolearn.org


[meta-page]: http://meta.wikitolearn.org/Guide_for_the_development_of_WikiToLearn/Run_WikiToLearnHome
