Detailed script overview
========================

The developer of the WikiToLearn is supposed to only run the scripts contained
in `./WikiToLearnHome` folder, according to the given instructions, since these
bundle all the basic operations that one would do to the WTL local instance.

These scripts

For a detailed variable overview read the relative section.

WTL Flavours
-------------------------------

WTL can be run with different purposes, and each of them has its own
peculiarities and requires its own specific configuration and setup.

First of all it can either be run in
*production* mode, for example as in the main production website or as in
the various staging websites, or in *non-production* mode, which can be local
development, or testing new servers and services.

Secondly, WTL environtment can be *basic* , i.e. it runs on a single node (or
host), or it can be spread into multiple georeplicated nodes ( *multiple nodes*
environtment).
We are currently working on georeplication, so this feature is not ready yet.

Script levels
-------------

The scripts are organized in *level*.

The first level is the *interacion* level
and is constituted by the scripts that the end user should use to interact with
its WTL repo.

The second level is the *atomic* level, and is contituted by single operations
that the user could perform on its WTL repo. These guarantee a finer control
over the WTL repo. Interaction level scripts are composed by combinations of
atomic level sripts.

The third level is the *helper* level, and is constituted by scripts that
are environment-dependent.

The fourh level is the *common* level, which is composed by scripts that
perform operation that are common among at least two helper level scripts from
different environments.

Recurring Commands
------------------

This section describes the commands that are recurring in many scripts.

### repo-wide script beginning

Every script should start with the following commands.

#### Debugging mode
Every script starts with

```{.bash}
[[  "$WTL_SCRIPT_DEBUG" == "1" ]] && set -x
```

which enables *debug mode*, meaning that runs the script printing to standard
output every command executed, a sort of trace mode.

This variable is supposed to be set by hand directly in the terminal:

```{.bash}
export WTL_SCRIPT_DEBUG=1
```

Then run the script to inspect. Use the following command to restore
the original configuration

```{.bash}
export WTL_SCRIPT_DEBUG=0
```

#### exit on errors
As already anticipated, every script contains the line

```{.bash}
set -e
```

in order to exit immediately if a command exits with a non-zero status.
Consult `set` manpage for further information.

#### Check of how the script is run

As anticipated in `general.mdown`, all the scripts should be launched by the
user and other script with

```{.bash}
./script.sh
```

so that `$0` always contains the correct script name, since if you launch a
call a script with

```{.bash}
. ./script.sh
```

then inside `script.sh` the variable `$0` contains the caller script name,
and we do not like it.

We need a way that allows us to check if the script is launched in te correct
way, and we do this by comparing the value of `$0` with what we expect.
This check is performed by the following commands:

```{.bash}
if [[ $(basename $0) != "instance.sh" ]] ; then
    echo "Wrong way to execute instance.sh"
    exit 1
fi
```

#### Change directory to /path/to/WikiToLearnHome/

For sake of simplicity we want every script to operate inside WTLH main folder,
this is performed by changing the directory to the correct relative path of
the script to WTLH main folder Therefore if the script is contained in
WTLH main folder, we simply do

```{.bash}
cd $(dirname $(realpath $0))
```
that changes directory to the directory that contains the current script.

If the script is contained in `script` folder, we do

```{.bash}
cd $(dirname $(realpath $0))"/.."
```
that changes directory to the directory that contains the directory that
contains the current script. Ok, i guess you have understood how this works.

Lastly we perform a check to be sure that the cd has been successfull: we test
if the `const.sh` file is present, since it should be in WTLH main folder.

```{.bash}
if [[ ! -f "const.sh" ]] ; then
    echo "Error changing directory"
    exit 1
fi
```

Interaction level
-----------------

#### create-config.sh

This script should be the first to be run after pulling the repo.
It creates

#### const.sh

Checks that the script is running in the correct folder.

Exports the following environment variables, that should not be changed.
This is considered to be a static configuration file.

```{.bash}
#define environment variables
export WTL_DIR=$(pwd)
export WTL_REPO_DIR=$WTL_DIR"/WikiToLearn"
export WTL_CONFIGS_DIR=$WTL_DIR'/configs/'
export WTL_RUNNING=$WTL_DIR"/running/"
export WTL_CERTS=$WTL_DIR"/certs/"
export WTL_CACHE=$WTL_DIR"/cache/"
export WTL_BACKUPS=$WTL_DIR"/backups/"
export WTL_MW_DUMPS=$WTL_DIR"/mw-dumps/"
export WTL_SCRIPTS=$WTL_DIR"/scripts/"

export WTL_HOOKS=$WTL_DIR"/hooks/"

export WTL_CONFIG_FILE=$WTL_CONFIGS_DIR"wtl.conf"
```

#### load-libs.sh

Takes care of loading the environment and configuration files.

##### Check about the user that runs the script

WTL can and should be managed by a simple user, we do not require it to have
administrative powers (remember to add your user to dockergroup!).
Running WTL as superuser can cause errors. We need to check that the scripts
are executed by a simple user, this check is performed by:

```{.bash}
# check the user that runs the script
if [[ $(id -u) -eq 0 ]] || [[ $(id -g) -eq 0 ]] ; then
    echo "[$0] You can't be root. root has too much power."
    echo -e "\e[31mFATAL ERROR \e[0m"
    exit 1
fi
```



#### instance.sh


Atomic level
------------

#### backup-auto-delete.sh
#### backup-do.sh
#### backup-restore.sh
#### composer-dir.sh
#### composer-for-dirs.sh
#### copy-last-backup-to-devdump.sh
#### create-running.sh
#### create.sh
#### delete-volumes.sh
#### delete.sh
#### docker-images-clean.sh
#### docker-images-delete-old-images.sh
#### docker-images-export.sh
#### docker-images-import.sh
#### download-all.sh
#### download-code.sh
#### download-mediawiki-extensions.sh
#### fix-hosts.sh
#### lang-foreach-php-maintenance.sh
#### list-instances.sh
#### make-readonly.sh
#### make-readwrite.sh
#### make-self-signed-certs.sh
#### panic-attack.sh
#### pull-images.sh
#### relase-procedure.sh
#### start.sh
#### stop.sh
#### unuse-instance.sh
#### unused-instance-stop-delete.sh
#### update-db.sh
#### update-home.sh
#### use-instance.sh
#### wtl-log

### Helper level

Here is presented just a quick overview of the purposes of each helper
script.

#### backup-do

#### backup-restore

#### create

#### make-readonly

#### make-readwrite

#### start


Environtments
-------------

Here is analysed the implementation of the helper scripts for each
environment.

### Basic Environment

### Basic - OCG development

### Multiple nodes environtment


































Draft Section
=============

Generic To Do List
------------------

### Renaming Dockers

docker  names
    wtl-dev-*
    wtl-commit_hash-*

### Create List of Available env

Create a list of possible env

### wtl-* scripts

#### wtl-create.sh

Wtl-create.sh (vedere run.sh)
Andrebbero fatti gli env, non questi script

Status: *BUONA FORTUNA*

#### wtl-start

Wtl-start.sh (vedere run.sh)

Status: *BUONA FORTUNA*

#### wtl-restorebackup

wtl-restoreback (vedere restore.sh)

#### wtl-do-backup

wtl-do-backup

Formato backup
<nomedb>.struct.sql -> sttruttura db
<nomedb>.data.sql -> dati db
images/
Importare/esportare immagini Docker

#### Wtl-update-db

Wtl-update-db.sh
langforeach+update.php (init-docker.sh)

Status: *NEED TEST*

#### Wtl-use-instance

Wtl-use-instance.sh
attiva haproxy (use-instance.sh)

Status: *NEED TEST*

### New Scripts

#### Wtl-manage-extensions.sh

cosa dovrebbe fare di preciso?

#### staging-rollout

**NOTE:** Descrivere Meglio cosa dovrebbe fare

Script per
Staging/Rollout (su db di chiavi gpg)
O Backup+importa ultimo backup
O Backup+restore

##### Staging

Voglio che se non riesce a scaricare qualcosa, continua a riprovarci finchè
non ci riesce

### Document Done Scripts

#### wtl-download

Wtl-download wtl-download.sh +
(Scarica immagini docker) pull-images.sh +
(Scarica repo WTL) download-code.sh

Status: *DONE*

#### Wtl-symlink

Wtl-symlink (vedere init-docker.sh) (da testare bene)

Status: *DONE*

#### Wtl-update-home

Wtl-update-home (gitpull automatico)

Status: *DONE*

#### Wtl-stop

Wtl-stop (docker stop di tutti) delle istanze docker wtl-dev-...
(non ci sono omologhi)

Status: *DONE*

#### Wtl-stop

Wtl-delete.sh
(elimina i docker e i volumi) (destroy)
(evitare di eliminare il docker e tenere i volumi, da problemi con le
    credenziali di mysql)

Status: *DONE*

#### composer-for-dirs

composer-for-dirs: elencare le cartelle dove fare composer nella config
(e documentare questa cosa) +

Status: *DONE*

#### wtl-PANICOOOO

    docker stop $(docker ps -a -q)
    docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)
    docker rmi $(docker images -q)
    docker volume rm $(docker volume ls -q)

Status: *DONE*








### const.sh

cd in current directory
Defines environment variables

### create-config.sh

Create user config "$WTL\_CONFIG\_FILE"

Instance, url, github token (composer), plugins for
customization  ($WTL\_USE\_DEFAULT)

### download-code.sh

pull, submodule init

warning: discard changes!

### active-instance

the old use instance: let's start everything

calls load-libs

we create a new instance (eg when shipping new versions= zero downtime)

### load-libs

?????

### run-all

upstart
